# Generate addresses for xpubs BIP44 BIP49 BIP84

__tldr__: generate list of addresses from xpubs. If you like it simple jump to: https://peli-pro.github.io/coldcard_address_generator/
But you should only use it for testing, if you use it with your own xpub please use the standalone html or node version.


This script will generate lists of addresses for your coldcard xpubs.
But you can use it with any other xpubs from other wallets as well (but you might not get the xpubs you really need).  
It is tested and developed for the coldcard.  
If you only have a ypub / BIP49 or a zpub / BIP84 you can use <a href="https://jlopp.github.io/xpub-converter/">https://jlopp.github.io/xpub-converter/</a> to convert
them to xpubs (choose xpub mainnet) and paste a ypub or zpub in the field below.

It will generate external (receive) and internal (change) addresses.
You will get those values from the public.txt file that you can export from the coldcard.
It uses the bitcoinjs-lib: https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib and bip32: https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip32

BEFORE YOU TRUST THIS SCRIPT PLEASE DOUBLE CHECK THAT IT WORKS CORRECTLY, SEE THE LAST SECTION !!!!!

You have 2 choices: 
* You can use the standalone html in your browser - no need to install anything
* you can use the javascript file with node.js and npm (if you like command line stuff)

but first:  
Get your public.txt from your coldcard
Insert a SD-Card in your coldcard   
```
Settings -> Blockchain -> Choose Bitcoin or Testnet: Bitcoin
```
then 
```
Advanced -> MicroSD Card ->Dump summary
```
this will create the file public.txt on your sd card. 

Open public.txt and get the xpubs from these sections:
:
```
## For BIP44 / Electrum: m/44'/0'/{account}'/{change}/{idx}
## For BIP49 (P2WPKH-nested-in-P2SH): m/49'/0'/{account}'/{change}/{idx}
## For BIP84 (Native Segwit P2PKH): m/84'/0'/{account}'/{change}/{idx}
```

## Standalone HTML
Save the coldcard_address_generator_html_standalone.html file somewhere on your computer and run it locally in Firefox or Chrome.  
No need to install anything.  
Or just run directly from github: https://peli-pro.github.io/coldcard_address_generator/  

## Node.js / command line version

### Installation
You will need to install node.js and git on your system
#### Ubuntu (tested for 18.04)
```
sudo apt install nodejs npm git  
npm install bitcoinlib-js
npm install bip32
```     

#### Windows
Install node.js from: https://nodejs.org/en/  
Install git from: https://git-scm.com/  
Open an elevated command prompt with admin rights:  
```
npm install bitcoinlib-js
npm install bip32
 ```
#### Clone this repository  
```
git clone https://github.com/peli-pro/coldcard_address_generator
```

#### Edit coldcard_address_generator_node.js
Edit the file `coldcard_address_generator_node.js` in the folder `coldcard_address_generator` and replace the demo xpubs in the first
section with your xpubs from public.txt.
If you need more than 20 addresses change the `n = 20` to a higher number.

### Run
Run the following command in the coldcard_address_generator folder: 
```
node coldcard_address_generator_node.js 
``` 
This will generate receive and change addresses.

## Testnet
Testnet is not supported at this moment


## Verify that the addresses generated here are correct
Please verify yourself that this script generates correct addresses.  
Compare the generated addresses with  
  * the addresses in your public.txt 
  * the addresses generated by Wasabi Wallet or Electrum Wallet 

## Licence
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2019 peli-pro

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
